[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: One of the
systems I find really useful is
human design when it comes to
understanding how we function
in particular.
My friends and I refer
to it regularly when
trying to understand ourselves
and understand each other.
And today, Emma Dunwoody
is with us and she's
going to share how
the system works
and why it makes for
higher tolerances
not just of ourselves,
but for others as well.
And welcome.
It's the first
time I've met you.
>> EMMA DUNWOODY:
Yeah, thank you.
>> REGINA: From down under.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly, all
the way from Australia.
>> REGINA: I love it.
So let's just get
right into it, Emma.
How did you first
discover human design
and how did that
come into your life?
Because I think it's a really
profound, direct system.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah.
Well, the big thing for
me was that I had spent--
I'd been diagnosed
very young, like at 28,
with depression and
panic disorder, which
was this catalyst for me
really starting to understand
the brain, behavior, even
quantum physics, psychology,
all of these things.
And that took me on this journey
of healing my mental health
and completely changing my life.
And then I would say,
about six years ago,
I had this moment where, wow,
I've changed my entire life.
Shouldn't I feel
better on the inside?
And at this moment in
time, I'm like, oh my god,
what am I going to do about it?
I'm meant to feel better.
And I just put this thing
out into the universe.
I was like,
universe, please, you
need to show me what's missing.
And, well, human
design came to me
over and over and over again.
So I committed to doing the
experiment, which is what
we talk about in human design.
And, well, I went from feeling
like there was something
missing in here to
living my dream life,
to doing my purpose,
to being fulfilled.
And human design
brought it in a way
where it was my unique playbook.
And I'd been trying
to put myself
into the playbook of life
that we're all given at birth
by our families and society.
And all of a sudden,
I could live my way,
and it just completely
transformed everything.
>> REGINA: I find it
truly transformative.
So you said you had to leave
behind your dream life?
OK, so tell us what
your dream life was.
And you were already
aware of human design.
You've been using human
design for quite a long time.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah.
Yeah, so I think
the big thing is
that I had created a
life that I thought
was going to make me happy.
And I started in advertising,
and I had lived in the city,
and had the house,
and had the husband,
and all of those things.
But I just was so unhappy.
So I did all the things and I
loved people like Tony Robbins,
and I followed a lot of those
performance based people.
And I had so much change,
but it was this heart space.
Human design was
that heart space.
And I'd realized that I'd been
trying to create this life
and fit between these lines.
So we actually, very early on
in my human design experiment,
we bought a caravan
and a car, and we
traveled around Australia.
I ran my entire
business from there.
We took the kids.
And it was this
moment that I was
like, wow, when I
follow my design,
I really can live
any sort of life
instead of constantly being
on my own case that I have
to do it this way, I
have to do it that way,
and just diminishing my own
self worth and, of course,
not having the impact that
my heart is hanging to have.
>> REGINA: And so you were
following societal structures,
the things that are passed down
to us, like you say, the list,
the dream.
So let me just ask
you quickly, so
when you decided with
your human design
that you were going to actually
start living your type,
which really makes life nothing
but a wonderful experiment,
with sovereignty, how did
that work with your husband?
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, this is such
a great question and I feel like
so many--
>> REGINA: It's a big
deal for everybody.
>>DUNWOODY: It's a big deal.
It's a really big deal.
And often in our spiritual
journey, one of us
is on the journey and the
other one isn't, and that
was very similar for us.
But the big thing that
changed for me was I
was here saying, come
on, you can do more.
You can do better.
Trying to champion him.
And I was juggling
two kids and I
was juggling studying,
and almost just waiting
for my turn.
And then when I understood human
design and this, of course,
serendipitous thing
happened where
he was given an
opportunity to take
what we call a
retrenchment package,
so he can take a big pay
out and leave his job.
And for some reason, something
in me said, oh, I'll do it.
I'll replace your income.
And he was on a big
wage at the time.
I have no idea why I did it.
But me being a manifesting
generator, I was like, wow,
and I'm away.
And then all of a sudden, I
could see him for who he is,
because he's a projector.
So I could start to understand,
right, so the way I live
is so different.
I'm passionate.
I'm excited.
I love to do this work, and I
can keep going, and dig deeper.
>> REGINA: You have the energy.
>>DUNWOODY: 100%.
And he doesn't have
that energy and he
doesn't have that consistent
enthusiasm driving him.
And what was beautiful
was just to see how
he could just flip everything.
>> REGINA: Isn't that amazing?
He was living a type
that wasn't his.
You were living a
type that wasn't you.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah.
And then, all of a sudden,
the resistance, the resistance
that we were
experiencing, whether it
was in our individual
lives or relationship,
started to fall away, and
the flow just moved in.
>> REGINA: I love it.
>>DUNWOODY: He's created
a whole business almost
by accident just
being in alignment
with being a projector.
>> REGINA: I love it.
And we're going to get
into this in just a sec.
So first of all,
human design we can't
go there without
talking about Ra
and how this whole
thing happened.
So go ahead and explain
what happened to this man.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, so
this was a man who was
very disillusioned with life.
He'd worked in advertising.
He'd had, I think, by that
stage, a number of marriages,
and he was looking
for something more.
And he was spending a
lot of time in Ibiza.
And he, one day,
started channeling
all of this information.
And he had this huge
resistance to it,
but, of course,
he did it anyway.
And over this period
of time of eight days,
I believe, he took
all the information,
he wrote it all down, and then
he brought it to the world.
Now, what has been very
beautiful about that
is that we are at
this time where
it doesn't have the
lineage, let's say,
of, let's say, astrology, but
we have this beautiful ability
to bring all this wisdom that
he channeled in from this guide
and he called it the Black Book.
And we are now in
this big experiment
because, ultimately, that's
what human design is.
It's an experiment.
It gives us this framework.
And something like the gene
keys puts all the beauty
around that framework.
And so Ra basically
brought it to the world,
he created this model,
he started to teach it
and took it out into the world.
And then I just feel like,
recently, probably the last two
years, it's like all of a
sudden where everyone wants to--
>> REGINA: Exactly.
I've had friends at 22
or 23 years and people
who knew Ra actually.
And Richard was one
of the people who was
one of the top students of Ra.
And then Richard had his
own illuminating days
where it was then
the layers started
coming in, the kind
of a refinement,
almost like the spiritual
textures of human design
which became the gene keys.
And so it's really
quite beautiful
and works well together.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: One of the things
about the original human
design, I think, that so many
people enjoy is it's so clear.
It's about how you function.
Like you were saying,
this is all an experiment.
Well, it's easy to have
an experiment if you
have a home base to go to.
Untethered, experimenting
with your life is
a little more difficult. Right?
>>DUNWOODY: 100%.
And I think one of the biggest
things-- my background,
I'm a behavioral
coach, so I'm always
thinking about how the brain
works or behavioral patterns.
And one of the things
I'm always doing
is helping people make
the unconscious conscious,
because, of course,
most of our behavior
comes from the unconscious mind.
And one of the things
that-- the reason
I've created
transformational human design
is because, so often, there's
so many people out there looking
for the answer and we're
trying to fit ourselves
into everybody else's model.
When we overlay human design,
we can look at the specificity.
We can really look at
our specific shadows
and say, where is that
turning up in my life?
And then we can add
things like the gene keys
to really see the potential
that lies within us.
And that, for me, I went
from having a business that
was successful in corporate,
coaching C-level executives
and teams.
And they were already
getting great results,
but the moment I integrated
human design into it,
it just expanded
because, of course,
they let go of all the rules.
They let go of the way
they were supposed to lead,
or they let go of the
way they were supposed
to interact with
their team members,
or even understanding-- when you
understand that, let's say, you
have a manifestor in your
team, these people are
going to be initiating, and so
you want to give them freedom.
If you have a projector in your
team, then you're going to ask.
If they are giving you guidance,
you're going to listen.
And it really made such
an instant difference
because of the specificity.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
So the whole thing is,
once you can sort of
see this template
about yourself,
is to now start experimenting
with honoring it,
which might mean
breaking lifelong habits
and having to show up in the
world in a new way to others
as well.
So we're going to take
a look at the chart here
and you can just
explain to us, starting
with the very top
center and going down,
what these centers are.
Because it looks a lot like the
tree of life in certain ways
too.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, and it is.
It's connected to
these ancient wisdoms.
So we start at the head
with the head center.
And this is all about-- it's
what we call a pressure center.
And there's all this information
coming in from source.
So it's about questioning,
questions, questions,
questions.
And then we move
down to thinking
and it's processing, which
is the next downward facing
triangle, which is the ajna.
And again, if these two
areas have a colored in,
then we call it defined.
If it's undefined,
they're white.
And that's going to change
how that energy flows.
Then we move down to
the throat center.
So in a human design chart,
all the energy in your chart,
its purpose is to get to the
throat for manifestation.
Now, not all of us have a
colored in or defined throat.
So what happens is
that, when we're in flow
and we follow our
strategy and authority,
which are the two most
important things in our chart--
>> REGINA: Yeah, we'll get
into all of those details.
>>DUNWOODY: --then
what's going to happen
is the universe is almost going
to move us like a puzzle piece
to the right people,
to the right places
so that it helps our
energy flow to the throat.
Then we move down
to the G center,
which is a diamond shape.
And if it's colored
in, it's yellow.
And this is the higher self.
This is like unconditional
love, higher consciousness,
and it's all about our
internal direction.
Then, all of a sudden, they
kind of split out a little bit.
Directly down, we
have the sacral.
Now, the sacral is a big
player in human design
because 70% of the
global population
will have that colored in.
And this is all about
life force, the work
that we want to do, expanding.
>> REGINA: Energy.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, exactly.
Power.
Then when we move off to
the little triangle up
and to the right.
That's what we call
the will center.
It's also called the ego
center and the heart center.
It's got a few names.
I'm not sure why, but it does.
And this is all about yes,
will energy, this will power,
determination.
It's very connected to the
three dimensional world.
So these people, if
it's colored in for you,
you probably want to create--
your very conscious of your 3D
reality, like the
car you drive maybe,
or the life that
you're building.
You're very focused on
that being a nice thing.
Now, we move down to the big
triangle on the right hand
side.
That is your emotional
solar plexus.
This is a big player.
And there's a big
shift that's going on
with this particular center.
Now, half the global population
have that colored in and half
don't.
And I've often heard it
explained as it's like two
completely different
races of human,
because some of us are
emotional and some of us aren't.
And I'm an emotional being
and I ride this emotional wave
all the time.
And one of the things
that human design really
helped me understand was, as a
behavioral coach and learning
NLP and mindset work, I
would do all the work,
but I wouldn't necessarily
have the change as fast as I
would see other people have it.
And I would think, well,
it's what I'm thinking
that's creating this emotion.
Now, if you're defined, if
that's colored in your chart,
then that's not entirely
true because you
have this mechanical wave that's
always going on inside of you.
So when you understand that
and you let it be there, then,
all of a sudden, those
unresourceful stories
that you tell yourself
in your head--
>> REGINA: So you just don't
put stories to the emotions
and understand they're just
going to keep waving through
you?
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: OK, because the
stories are what take us down
and waste our energy and time.
>>DUNWOODY: That's
exactly right.
And the meanings we give it.
If we give our
emotions-- so now,
I've given my emotional
low the meaning
that it's super
important to actually
make it really positive.
OK, I'm in my emotional low.
Therefore, I need
to nurture myself.
As opposed to, oh, my goodness,
I need to work harder,
I need to do more, I
need to push harder.
>> REGINA: And you need to
figure out what this is,
where is it coming from.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
>> REGINA: So you stop that,
because that can become
a really neurotic game.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, especially
if you've got definition
and it never goes away.
>> REGINA: What about people--
the other half of the population
where it's not defined?
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, now,
this is where it can be--
it's a gift and a challenge.
Because, when it's
not defined, anywhere
that we have a white center,
it's amplifying any energy
that someone else has.
So I have a defined
solar plexus.
So someone who
doesn't, they're going
to amplify and reflect
back my emotional energy.
So imagine children with an
emotional defined mother,
or brother, or
sister, or father.
And they're not
emotional, but they're
feeling these
really big emotions
that are bigger than their own.
And of course, if we think about
the behavioral or the mindset
implications of that, then
they create this identity
that they're emotional
and they try and fix it
in their adult life.
And of course, they
can't, because--
>> REGINA: It wasn't
theirs to begin with.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
So the solar plexus is a really
big player and it's a really--
when you understand
your definition there,
it can really help in
your healing journey.
>> REGINA: OK.
And what about off
to the left there?
>>DUNWOODY: So off to the
left, we have the spleen,
and that is the intuition.
It's kind of like the
ancient part of the chart.
It's about health,
well-being, intuition.
If it's colored in,
you're probably a person
that you have a lot more--
easy well-being, if you like.
>> REGINA: General stamina.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Inherent stamina.
>>DUNWOODY: Yes.
And you'll have a
really consistent way
of your intuition showing up.
Whereas when you're
undefined, it's
going to depend on
who you're around.
So I'm undefined and I've got
a lot of intuitive friends.
So when I'm with
the ones that are,
let's say, clairvoyant,
then, all of a sudden,
I see a lot more images.
But when I'm with friends that,
let's say, are clairsentient,
then I feel a lot more
of their clairsentience
because I'm amplifying and
reflecting back that energy.
And then, down the bottom,
we have the root center.
And the root center is
another pressure center.
It's the energy
coming up from Gaia,
pushing the energy
around the chart.
And this is all about
movement, progress,
and the fuel that drives either
emotional energy, well-being,
or that life force energy.
>> REGINA: And then people can
see also there are these lines,
some red, some black coming out.
And this is where,
later on, you also start
looking at how your chart
overlays with another person's
chart, where these
lines link up,
and where they're not
coming out at all.
And I guess it
shows you the things
you have to work-- that are open
that you both have to work on,
but also areas where you
can really help and finish
an energy with another person.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
I was just saying
to someone recently
who was what we call a
split definition, which
means they've got these
areas of definition
where two centers
maybe are connected,
but they're not all
connected together.
And if we feel
stuck in our energy
and we have a split definition,
if we just go to the cafe
or go and lie on the
beach or something
where there's people
around us, then that's
going to, in most cases,
help our energy flow
because that's exactly how our
designs plug into each other.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
And this is a collective.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
>> REGINA: And so one thing
a friend of mine who's deeply
into human design
explained is that,
going back to the
emotions, because, again,
it's 50/50 on the planet,
let's go over to the other one,
to the spleen, the center
of well-being, that,
when you have a person that
is undefined in that area,
spending time with
someone who's defined,
that the person who's
undefined often will relax.
And they also gain more of a
feeling of well-being or safety
around that person.
Why would that be?
>>DUNWOODY: Well, I
love this question
because this is-- in many,
many worlds or groups
in human design,
people would have
asked the opposite question.
Why when I hang out with
people with a defined spleen,
am I unwell and fearful?
Because fear lives
in the spleen.
But you're absolutely right.
When the person
with the definition,
especially in the
spleen because it's
the house of fear, when they're
aligned and they're well,
they're actually amplifying
the well-being of the people
that they're with.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
That's been my experience.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
OK, so now, we're going to
talk about the four types,
the main types, and
how they function,
and what happens when
we don't understand
this about each other.
Because this leads to so much
turmoil and misunderstanding
between us.
In my opinion, in every
corporate situation,
even in the school
room, we should
have an idea of the basic
nature of the functioning
of each other.
>>DUNWOODY: I
couldn't agree more.
>> REGINA: OK, we start
out with generators.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, let's do it.
So generators, there's
two types, if you like,
because generators make up
70% of the global population,
but we have this
hybrid which is called
a manifesting generator,
which is part generator, part
manifestor.
>> REGINA: And that's you.
>>DUNWOODY: That's me,
the Energizer bunny,
which we're often referred to.
Now, generators, we're here
to be lit up and excited,
inspired into action by
our manifestor friends,
in many cases.
But ultimately, our
sacral is saying,
I've got energy for this.
I've got enthusiasm for this.
Let's build it.
Let's grow it.
Let's follow it.
So they're very
much here to build
something they're very
enthusiastic about
and they're passionate about.
They're also the people that
are here to respond to life.
Now, we're so taught to go
out and take massive action,
but generators are
not designed that way.
They're actually
designed to follow
what they enjoy,
what they're excited,
what they're lit up about.
And then it's like the
universe brings them
opportunity after opportunity.
And it doesn't have to
be like the dream job.
That's one way
people can respond.
But they're
responding when they--
let's say, they open
the refrigerator
and they're like,
wow, I really want
to eat that chocolate mousse.
That's a generator.
>> REGINA: So to be enthused
is really the fuel that keeps
generators moving forward
on track and healthy?
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
And the biggest challenge
is, because they
have this energy and this
ability, is, in many cases,
they don't have boundaries.
They think, well,
I have the energy,
or I can do it, or
just put it on me.
I'll take it.
>> REGINA: I'll
volunteer, right.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, exactly.
So that's probably
the biggest challenge.
And because they're
very magnetic.
A generator type is
a very magnetic type.
People are very drawn to them.
And because of the other
details of their chart,
they often find they're
very obligated to help.
So it's very important that
they follow that enthusiasm
because their sacral
is always telling them,
yep, you have energy
for this, or nope,
you don't have energy for this.
So if they can just trust
that simple yes, no,
it's a life changer for them.
>> REGINA: But of course, the
big problem is society has been
programmed.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
>> REGINA: So the simplicity
of saying, oh, god,
that sounds wonderful,
yeah, I'd love to do it.
Oh, no, I can't.
I've got to get to work.
I've got to do this.
I've got to do that.
So how does a generator
or manifesting generator
begin the process of breaking
free of the imposed societal
norms and demands so
that they can literally
hear that voice of, oh, yes?
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, I love that.
So the first thing
is always play.
We want to connect
to our sacral.
And I'm always saying,
we need to play.
All types need to play.
But ultimately, we have
to find that enthusiasm.
We also need to reteach
people how to treat us.
Because at the end
of the day, when
we take full
responsibility, we say,
OK, well, I've actually taught
you to treat me this way.
I've taught you that you
can put everything on me.
So.
It is an uncomfortable journey,
but it is an important one
of putting boundaries
in place and saying
no, my sacral-- and you
don't have to say to people,
no, my sacral says no,
but it's just like,
no, I can't take that
on, and really starting
to put boundaries in place.
The challenge also just to
be aware of is, of course,
the sacral is simple and easy.
Uh-huh, uh-uh.
But the mind isn't,
then the mind jumps in
and has all of these stories.
So it's just about practicing.
Because the more you
act from the sacral,
the louder the sacral is going
to get and the quieter the mind
is going to get.
Because all the brain is
really looking for is evidence.
It just wants the evidence
that it can trust it.
And if you keep showing it that,
yes, you can trust the gut,
then the mind will
get more quiet
and the gut will get louder.
>> REGINA: OK, so that's
generators and we folded
in there manifesting generators.
We'll get to pure
manifestors in a second.
But between those two,
the next is the class
that's called projectors.
>>DUNWOODY: Now, our
projectors are our guides.
These are the people--
I always love-- in my
head, the projectors
are the girl in the classroom
who always has the answers.
And you know that the
teacher says, no, no, Sally,
give someone else a go.
And actually, no, Sally is
here to answer the question,
so let her answer the questions.
That's what she's here to do.
Projectors are our guides.
They see into people in a way
that the other types don't see.
They can see the way
we're using our energy.
Is it being used resourcefully
or unresourcefully?
And projectors have
their specific people.
So for me, for example, I have
certain projectors in my life.
And I'm very much
one of their MGs,
as we call this
Manifesting Generators.
So they are there to guide us.
Now, they could be
guiding us in business.
They could be guiding
us in relationships,
in friendships, anything.
But it's really about being
able to see these people,
because the biggest
challenge for the projector
is that they see
all these things.
They're actually on the planet
to be seen and recognized,
however, they've
never been allowed
to be seen and recognized
because it's almost
like it's conditioned out
of them at a young age.
Don't be bossy.
Don't be a show-off.
Don't be this.
Don't be that.
So then they get
to this place where
I've got all this
wisdom inside of me,
and they want to
force it on everyone.
Like see me, see me.
But it's like that completely
deflates their wisdom.
No one wants to see them.
No one wants to receive them.
And it's this art form almost
of then allowing people
to come back to you.
And once you get into that
place where you're like,
you see your worth, and
your value, and your wisdom,
then the people that
you're here to guide--
I will sit around my
projectors for hours
and listen to what
they have to say.
>> REGINA: Now, if I may
speak on a personal note,
I'm a projector.
And I remember
when I was younger,
and gathering a
lot of knowledge,
and my intuition was
kicking in, and I
was so excited to share
everything with everyone.
I can say there was nary a
person even remotely interested
in what I had to say.
And it was frustrating.
I thought, no, but
this is so valuable.
But the point is, with
projectors, there's almost--
you have to be in a position
to wait to be invited to speak.
So what happened, as the
years went on, ultimately,
I started doing what
I'm doing for a living.
So I offer information
for a living.
I offer my insights
And then I didn't have to try
to speak to people privately
anymore.
It was like, no, I settled in.
This is who I am.
This is my job.
And it's all kind of built
in, baked into the cake.
But it was very frustrating
in those decades
where no one cared if
I had something to say.
I was just the weird
person in the room.
>>DUNWOODY: And honestly, that's
how so many projectors feel.
They feel so unseen and unheard.
And what is beautiful
about your story
is that it's important for
projectors to focus on what--
because they all want to
obsess about something.
They're all like,
what is this thing
and how can I make it better?
And when they focus on
that and they just share,
as they get those--
as you say, it's
their strategy,
their invitation,
as they get small
invitations to share
or they're just
sharing their passion.
I always say, share it freely.
Don't worry about
what people do with it
or even if they pick it up.
Don't worry about it.
Just share whatever
you're obsessing about.
And over time, what
happens is that you
will flow into that alignment.
And your example is
perfect because you
get to do your work,
and ask the questions,
and share all of
this information,
but you don't have to ask
anyone to come to you.
You don't have to push
it on to anyone else.
>> REGINA: Right.
Those days are over.
But the other part
of the projector
is they don't have
that innate energy
that a manifestor, manifesting
generator, or generator has.
And yet, you try to keep up,
keep up with the Joneses, i.e.
keep up with the generators.
It's very exhausting.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, it
can be a real challenge.
I think my mother
was a projector.
And everyone used to laugh
at her because she worked
in the media, of all things.
And she would often sleep
under her desk at lunch time.
And everyone would
think she's hilarious.
But in hindsight,
I'm like, wow, well,
she was just an in
alignment projector.
She needed the rest.
She couldn't operate that way.
So the other thing that is
really important for projectors
in all of our
non-sacral types, which
is the manifestor, the
reflector, and the projector,
is you have to become
really aware of your energy
and how much you have when
you're in your own aura.
Because when you're in the aura
of a generator-- and remember,
70% of the global
population-- you
think you have all this energy.
And then you're not in
that aura and it goes away.
And not only that
is maybe you leave
the office with all your
generator friends and you
go home.
And you're like, wow, I feel
like I've been hit like a bus.
>> REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>>DUNWOODY: And that's
because you've been processing
everybody else's energy.
So you have to also have
some sort of ritual, a way
that you can
cleanse your energy.
And it could be simple,
as simple as showering
as soon as you get home,
or going for a swim,
or walk in nature.
But it's really
important for you to--
>> REGINA: Get your own space
so they're your own thoughts,
so you have time
to really think.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Now, we
go to manifestors,
and they're a fun lot.
I didn't understand my
manifestor friends 'til I found
out they were manifestors.
And I thought, my god, she
doesn't listen to anyone.
She just goes off and
does what she does.
She's just taking
control of everything,
trying to figure it out.
So that's what they're
supposed to do.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
What they're here to do is to
initiate and inspire people
into action.
But they are the child.
Ra said, just give a
manifestor child a mobile phone
and they'll be fine,
a very Ra comment.
I do not advocate that.
>> REGINA: He was
very irreverent.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah.
But they are so independent.
And from a chart
point of view, they're
energetically
independent, meaning
that they don't need
someone else's energy
to get their energy to
that manifestation place.
So as children, they can
tend to be harder to wrangle.
They're going to do
what they want to do.
And that really actually needs
to be supported in the kids.
And when you have a
manifesting generator--
I have two MG
children, two boys--
it's also a fine balance.
You have to be very careful
that you don't squash that--
I have to be allowed to
go out and into the world
and have that freedom,
because freedom and peace are
a really important part
of being a manifestor.
And a lot of manifestors,
what will happen is that,
because they have this big
really big aura-- and again,
this happens for manifesting
generators as well--
is that, often, they become
very aware very young
that they have this
big, impactful aura
and that it upsets people in
whatever way that might be.
So they shut themselves down.
They shut down their power and
they become people pleasers.
And basically, they just start
to die a little bit inside
because they're meant
to be very free.
They're meant to be
out in the world,
to be lighting the fires,
starting the process,
being the head of the
movement, whatever it might be.
So it's a journey for
them to really learn
to have that freedom again.
But the key to
being a manifestor
is part of their strategy
is they must inform.
>> REGINA: Explain that.
>>DUNWOODY: Manifestors and
MGs, the big thing is that
a manifestor isn't--
it's not about asking
for permission.
And many manifestors
will come to it and go,
well, I'm not asking
for permission,
or they ask for permission
when they shouldn't
be asking for permission.
I like to say that
it's declaring
the direction of your energy.
So it could be simple as,
I'm going down the street
to pick up a bag of chips
or I'm going down the street
to get a green smoothie.
Or it could be,
I've had this idea,
I'm thinking of
building this business.
I'm heading in this direction.
Now, most manifestors
and MGs, especially
as they come to
human design, they'll
be like, god, I actually
go out of my way
not to inform people
because I'm afraid they're
going to get in my way.
And that's all to do
with their energy.
They actually have
this fear within them
that, if they tell people,
people are going to stop them.
>> REGINA: Right.
And they're going forward.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
And the important thing
to understand, especially
with manifestors, is that you're
going to have your people.
The knowledge talks about them
being very polarizing energy.
In my experience, the higher
their consciousness goes,
the less polarizing they are.
But they're here for very
specific people, whether it's
a large group or a few people.
So it's only important
that those specific people
follow them because they're the
ones they're here to inspire.
And it's important that the
others don't, because they
can't be wasting their energy.
They don't have a defined sacral
to be wasting all this energy
on with people that
they're not actually here
to inspire into action.
>> REGINA: Yeah, I found that
I've really grown to just
deeply respect my
manifestor friends.
They're a force.
And the whole notion
of just informing,
otherwise, they just
kind of disappear.
You don't know what happened.
They don't explain anything
to anyone, which they do.
And so now, we've begun
learning together.
Just let me know what's
going to happen next.
And I find that
there's just so much
creativity and energy that pours
out of it, so much research.
I'll say one thing, and they're
already on looking it up.
And like, OK, we can do
this, this, this, and this.
It's like, thank you.
That's great.
You saved me the energy.
So they're very powerful, very
powerful creators, manifestors.
So now, let's go to the one
that's, what, 1% of society?
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, reflectors.
>> REGINA: Reflectors, which
is, when you look at a chart--
here's the chart we're going to
look at of a reflector-- oops,
nothing is filled in.
What the heck?
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, well,
they are, as I said, 1%.
They're just this
very small group.
However, they have a very
important role to play.
Ultimately, their role to play,
if manifestors are inspiring us
into action, and
generators are manifesting,
generators are building, and
the projectors are improving
on everything so
far, the reflectors
are reflecting back where we're
at, where we're actually at.
What is the truth of the matter?
It's like, once we
reflect back and we
see the truth of where we're
at, it's like rinse and repeat.
Let's go around the cycle again.
So they are very,
very important.
If you have a happy, healthy,
well connected reflector
in your friendship
group or business,
then you know you're on track.
It's a really good sign.
However, if you have a reflector
that you feel like is lost,
and flip-flops a
lot, and doesn't
know who they are, or feels like
they have to prove themselves,
then, all of a sudden,
like, OK, wow, they're
probably reflecting back
what's going on in here.
There's work to be done.
The other thing
about the reflector
is they are incredible
at seeing energy.
So they can see this nuance
of energy, very different
to the projector.
The projector, it's
almost like this very--
I often say like Yoda.
It's like Yoda, just know.
You're not quite
with the force yet.
Whereas the reflector
is almost like
they can see the cycles
coming or they can see
a very deep shadow in someone.
So they're very, very, very
connected to subtle energy.
>> REGINA: The only reflector
I've known well was a genius
of a healer.
Theoretically, they were
a physical therapist,
but they understood
energy and how
to heal in the most
creative ways I've seen.
So that would probably be--
>>DUNWOODY: And
that's it spot on.
And I think one of the
challenges with a reflector
is, obviously, that
person's like, they
found their alignment
within their work.
However, let's say,
their relationship, it
isn't a high quality
relationship,
then that reflector is going
to live a very different life
in other areas of their life.
>> REGINA: So we have these
charts and we've seen some here
where you've got some filled
in, some not filled in.
What happens when someone
has everything filled in?
Does that happen very often?
>>DUNWOODY: It's very rare.
I think it's also 1% or
2% of the population.
I actually-- the first
ever mastermind I ever
ran was a fully defined person.
I was like, wow, this is epic.
I'm so grateful
to have you here.
And what that means is
they just have a very--
they're probably going
to be a person that feels
very certain to be around.
It's a very consistent--
people trust them because
trust comes from consistency.
So they just have a very
consistent way of being,
because where we're colored
in, it's who we feel we are
and it's how other
people see us.
Where we have those
white centers,
this is where we're taking in
and amplifying other people's
energy.
So this is where maybe we're
empathic, or we're intuitive,
or we just experienced
our energetic gifts,
or whatever that might be.
So it's a lot more fluid.
We're influenced by others
in those undefined centers.
>> REGINA: And then when you
get together with other people
and you put your charts
together, you might have, say,
all of them defined where
each of you have half of them.
Now, you have them all defined.
What would that bode
for a relationship?
>>DUNWOODY: Well,
they actually have--
if you put-- let's say, you
put your two charts together,
what you're really looking
for is what isn't defined.
So you might have
no centers defined.
And that really
means that it's going
to be one of these relationships
that does feel very--
I have a relationship like
that with my eldest son.
And it just feels very easy.
It feels very easy because
everything just kind of plugs
in.
We're very consistent.
>> REGINA: You're saying
it's all filled in?
>>DUNWOODY: All of our
centers are all filled in.
>> REGINA: Yeah, all the
centers are filled in.
>>DUNWOODY: So it's
almost a very-- it's
a very consistent relationship.
Now, that's not
actually very common.
Most people are going
to have at least one,
maybe two, maybe three maybe
four centers undefined when
you put the two together.
When you have that undefined
center, or the white center,
that's your area of growth.
So what does that mean?
That means that, let's say,
you have a relationship that
has still has the
G center, which
is the diamond in the middle,
it means that that relationship
is going to be--
where the inconsistency, where
the growth is going to come
is going to be all
about lovability,
because the G center is
all about lovability.
So maybe you come together
and it feels great.
And then you're
probably going to have
to work on lovability
in that relationship.
It's going to be a
significant journey for you.
>> REGINA: What about, say,
if your emotions are both
undefined?
>>DUNWOODY: So
you're going to have
to-- because if you
two come together
and you've got an undefined
solar plexus, what's
going to happen is
that you're going
to have to work on emotions.
You're going to have to
work on maybe clearing out
others or the patterns
that you've learned,
maybe bringing home
other people's emotions.
But it could be the other side--
maybe you grew up
in a family that
was very balanced emotionally,
and you're in a relationship,
and you're like, wow, I
should feel different to this.
But you're two
unemotional people,
so you actually get to--
OK, well, maybe we don't
have those big emotions
when we're together.
>> REGINA: Thank you for that.
Now, someone like yourself
that is very familiar
and can really dive deep
into it, there are layers.
Now, what we've
been talking about
is right there for
anybody to see when
they pull their own chart up.
Where can they go to get charts?
I know a couple places.
>>DUNWOODY: They can go to my
website and get a free chart
and easy as that.
>> REGINA: OK, so anybody can
go on and get a free chart,
and start looking at yourselves
and seeing what's filled out.
But it takes some study and
you need a little guidance.
Right?
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So let's go into
some other layers that I found
fascinating, which is we also
are defined in how our minds
work, whether we're a very
fast processor of information--
I think you say processor-- or
whether we're a slow processor.
And this has nothing to do
with IQ or intelligence.
It's the speed at which the
brain is taking in something.
Talk about this, because,
sometimes, we think,
god, why are they so slow?
>>DUNWOODY: And I love that
you said this because there's
so many layers to this as well.
What you're referring to,
we find in our arrows.
When we look at our chart,
there's four arrows.
Some charts have
them, some don't.
And if we have a chart, if
we have an arrow to the left,
that's going to
tell us that we have
this focused, strategic mind.
It's going to
process information.
It likes to lock on to things.
There actually tend
to be people that--
and I actually have this arrow--
that you almost forget to get up
and eat or go to the bathroom,
because once you're in
there and you're processing,
you don't even think.
It's almost like you
miss the body cues.
Now, if on top of that,
you have definition
in the head and the
ajna, then you're
already three steps ahead of
the other people in the room
with undefined heads and ajnas.
So you're actually
in this situation
where you're influencing
the thinking of the room.
You're three steps ahead.
Your processing is much
faster than anyone else's.
And it's kind of like, wow,
what's going on in here?
Whereas when you're
a slower processor,
it's all about receptivity.
It's about as the
information comes in.
And these people just
have to be really focused,
have to be in the moment.
They have to be receiving
the information.
And it can actually be hard for
them to access that information
sometimes.
For example, my eldest son
is what we call a quad right.
So all of his arrows
go to the right.
And being at school,
I was like, he's
not designed for normal
school, if you like.
So I always said to
him, all you need
to do is just be
really, really present.
If you're really present, you'll
take in everything you need.
It was a game changer
for him because he
would be putting all
this pressure on himself
to try and work it out,
whereas, if he could just
stay there and be present
with the teacher or whatever,
his study partner was
saying, all of a sudden,
he was retaining all of this
information differently.
The other thing that's
important to understand
is these people who
have definition colored
in the head and the ajna.
They're influencing
the thinking of a room.
So wherever we
have definition, we
want to be responsible for
that, because we're going
to influence those people.
It's the same with emotions.
Take responsibility
for the emotions
we're bringing into the room.
>> REGINA: Because you're going
to have an inordinate impact
on everyone around you,
especially those who are
undefined in those areas.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
>> REGINA: OK, another one
that I found interesting was
the notion of whether you're
an active or passive person.
And that's kind of
interesting, those definitions
in themselves.
And it came about because
my friend was reading
for a group of three of us.
And one of them just
has to go, go, go.
Everything has to be
structured and go.
It's like, can't we just
chill and have a cup of tea?
And the answer is,
no, not really.
And he was explaining why.
So let's talk about
active versus passive.
>>DUNWOODY: Yeah, again,
this is in our arrows.
And what it tells
us is that we have
an active or a passive body.
And what's really
helpful about this is,
because it does go
down into the details,
it really helps someone
like me, for example.
I'm a manifesting
generator, and I'm
told that I am this
Energizer bunny.
I have all the
energy in the world.
I can do all the things.
But when I first
came to human design,
I was like, well,
that's true sometimes.
And then when I started
to understand this,
I have a passive body.
So I have this real
polarity in so many areas
of my chart with
my passive body,
for example, that I am someone
who I get up very early.
I do a lot of exercise.
I go to the gym.
I have a horse.
I ride my horse.
But then for the
rest of the day,
I am very happy to sit at
my desk and do my work.
My body thrives in that--
>> REGINA: Quiet state.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
There's so many of my
clients and colleagues
who, they might
stand at their desk
on their treadmill or this--
and I couldn't think of anything
worse.
I'm like--
>> REGINA: But those are active.
>>DUNWOODY: Exactly.
And when the body is active
and you have this active arrow,
it's going to help
you think better,
and it's the same
with the passive.
So when I allow myself that
passive state, then, of course,
everything else
is easier for me.
>> REGINA: Thank you for that.
There are so many of these.
And as you said
earlier-- and I just
want to get to it before we
wrap it up-- and that is,
you say when you're looking at
your chart for the first time
as a beginner, the
most important parts
to look at are your strategy
and authority, and explain that.
>>DUNWOODY: So I like
to explain it this way.
Your strategy is
kind of like the way
the universe speaks to you.
Your authority is your
internal guidance system
and it's the communication
loop that's constantly moving.
We find our strategy
from our type.
So of course, for you, the
strategy is to be invited.
For me, it's to be in
response and to inform.
For a manifestor, that is
to initiate and inform.
>> REGINA: And what
about reflectors?
>>DUNWOODY: Well, they have
to wait a 28 day lunar cycle.
Because they don't
have definition,
they actually have
to wait for the moon
to move all the way
through their chart
so that they can know how
they really feel about things.
They have to wait that 28 days.
>> REGINA: Wow.
That takes some patience.
>>DUNWOODY: Yes.
>> REGINA: So we're
almost out of time.
You have a podcast, right?
>>DUNWOODY: Yes.
>> REGINA: So people can
kind of dial in and find out
what's going on by
listening to your podcast.
They can go get a
free chart there.
And I think the beauty of it--
and I would like you to make
your final thoughts--
I think the beauty of it is
it helps us to see ourselves
and others more clearly so
we can have more compassion
and everything settles down.
Drop judgment.
We're just more
accepting of each other.
That's what I find
about the beauty in it.
What about you?
>>DUNWOODY: I actually think
that is absolutely spot on.
I know, for me, in all
of my relationships,
even in my marriage,
everything changed
because what is so important
is that we see the world,
our brain is set up to see the
world as we are, not as it is.
And what human design
gives us is the ability not
only to treat people
as we perceive
they want to be treated,
but even better than that.
We get to treat people as
they're designed to be treated.
We get to see them truly as
they are and who they are.
>> REGINA: It's quite a gift
and we all have Ra to thank.
He's no longer with us.
And then we have Richard
Red who carried it forward
into gene keys.
>>DUNWOODY: It's amazing.
>> REGINA: Absolutely amazing.
Emma, thank you so much for
explaining all this today.
I really appreciate it.
I think it's very useful
for a lot of people.
>>DUNWOODY: Thank you.
>> REGINA: To learn more
about human design with Emma,
you can go to emmadunwoody.com.
Also, check out some
of Ra's original talks
on human design on YouTube.
They're pretty wild.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]